# Contributing to Apex

First, thanks for the interest in contributing! Before contributing be sure to
read out [Code of Conduct](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md)

## License

By contributing to Apex, you agree to license your commits under the [Apache
2.0 License](LICENSE.md).

## Adding New Features

When adding new features a few things have to be taken into account:

 * Your code must work with Clang in C++20 mode, and work on Linux.
    * At some point in the future, it will have to work with libc++, instead of
        libstdc++
 * Your code must pass all sanitizer checks
 * Your code must be documented.
 * If new code, you must supply at least 2 unit test cases.

## Style Guides

### C++ Style Guide

Currently, this is enforced with a mix of both clang-tidy and clang-format.
That said, clang-format cannot (currently) enforce several style decisions
found in our code base:

 * Use east `const` (i.e., `auto const name`, `type const&`, etc.)
 * `everything_is_snake_case`, `template <class ExceptForTemplateParameters>`
 * `typename` may only be used when using a dependent type, or for a 'valid
     type check' in a `requires` expression.
 * `bool` may only be used as a return type. Functions taking a `bool` as a
     parameter are banned
 * Functions that return `bool` must be marked `[[nodiscard]]`
 * 2 spaces per indent
 * C style casts are banned. Use the appropriate C++ cast keyword.
 * Do not use `std::forward`. Use a `static_cast` to a forwarding reference
     instead.
 * Do not prefix 'getters' and 'setters' with `get_` and `set_`

(NOTE: More will be added above as time goes on, however clang-tidy and
clang-format cannot always be used, so following them is less important than
other checks)

### Git Commit Messages

Git commit messages should utilize [gitmüòçji](https://gitmoji.carloscuesta.me/)
or the actual emoji themselves for each line item. If a line item requires more
information, place it in a paragraph below the line item with a 2 space indent
(unless the description is for the subject line of the commit). e.g.,

```gitcommit
‚ö° Improve the speed with fooing the bar

  Fooing a bar has been proven to be slow in certain cases due to a lack of
  constexpr-ing all the things. This change improves this by marking some
  foo overloads constexpr when operating on a bar. We cannot foo a baz, yet,
  as this is technically a defect report and we'd rather not rely on undefined
  behavior.
üêõ Resolve outstanding std::launder bug
  After consulting with 13 oracles, 12 wizards, and the editor of the C++
  standard we've finally figured out when to use std::launder: never, unless
  told to otherwise
‚ôª Refactor several functions to use concepts
```

Please note that the [gitmüòçji](https://gitmoji.carloscuesta.me/) list has
changed over time, with very little information on why something was or was not
added. At some point, a list of accepted vs unaccepted emoji may be published
in this document.

### CMake Files

Most CMake related build files can be found in
[netlify/cmake](https://github.com/netlify/cmake), however we have to define
our main file anyhow. Try to follow the existing style of the code, but keep
the following rules in mind.

 * 2 spaces per indented level.
 * Parameters intended to be treated as URLs, or strings are to be
     quoted. Paths are not required to be quoted.
 * Prefer generator expressions over `if()/else()` commands, unless it is
     either impossible *or* the conditional logic only affects configuration
     time, and does not pass through to generation time.
 * Global variables are to use `SCREAMING_SNAKE_CASE`
 * Local variables are to use `kebab-case`.
 * When placing a command over multiple lines, parameter names are to be
     indented one level, with the actual arguments taking up one level further.

### Documentation

Currently, most C++ documentation generators do not support C++20. Despite
this, we are still using a Doxygen/JavaDoc like syntax in some places to at
least explain some details. Once a documentation generator that supports
concepts and requires expressions is available, the documentation will be
rewritten to support that tool. Despite this, we cannot guarantee when this
will happen and if it is even possible.
